1. Noticing 
2. Wanting
3. Doing
4. Liking

Noticing : 

Implementation Intensions: 
"Track how often you exercise..."


Specific Plan : chances increases beyound general thinking.

Many People think they lack Motivation when what they really lack is clearity.


being specific about when where and how, gives more clearity and a boundage in a good sance.


The Failure Premortem:
1. A quick exercise to notice what is holding you back.
2. It is six months from now. Imagin you have failed to achieve your most importent goal. Write the story of how it happened. What caused it to fail.



We usually do what we are presented with.


3. Doing 


Quality vs Quantity.

Experiment of professor of university of florida:

devided class in two parts 1 for the quantity group, who will focus on quantity more.
and 2nd is quality and they have to give only one perfect fhoto of them.

Nut in last the best result came from quantity group.

So in the beginning just shutup and play your absent.


                               A                       B                                C
Few <--------------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------------|-----------> Many

                        Number of repetitions.

                        A = Easy Goal.
                        B = Moderate Goal.
                        C = Difficult Goal.



Data from james clear website.

After 6 articles = 100 Subscribers.
After 23 articles = 1,000 Subscribers.
After 96 articles = 34,000 Subscribers.
After 177 articles = 10,000 Subscribers.
After 243 articles = 250,000 Subscribers.
After 270 articles = 400,000 Subscribers.


But you can't get the fact that the repetations matter, So every outcome is just the point along with that spectrum.


ifGetting you repts in is increadibly importent, Then that means Learning How to start is increadibaly importent.

Consistency is just getting started over and over again each day. 



Devid Allen : 2 minut rule for productivity.
--> If it takes two minut, Just do it now. Dont Plan it don't wait just do it

But for many of the habits and behaviour that we want to adopt are going to take more then 2 minuts.  But Any habit can be starten in less then 2 minutes.

For writing or meditating or whatever is it.


Example of twalo wetharp (Great coriograffer and dancer) : 
She said that she has a two hour workout routine that she does every morning.
But the habbit was not the workout routine.
The habbit was that she would wake up walkdoen to the street and hail a cab.

Because as long she hail the cab and get to gym, She is going to do her workout.

Dont focus on finishing line for now just focus on the starting line.
Just start and get repts in. Often the Outcome comes just as a natural result.

everything like how mus=ch money we want to earn, how much subscribers i would have every thing is focused on finishing line.



4.Linkng

The only reason we repeat behaviors is because we like them. You need to experiance rewards along the way.

If we don't enjoy the experience along the way we are unlikely to stick with it. And that means that you need to figure out that you bring the reward in the present moment.
Because good habits has a problem, And thet problem is that for good habits the imidate conciquencies there theres a cost thet happenes at the moment but reward comes late.
If you go to gym now that costs time and energy and effort. But the reward is ill be fit in 3 months from now. and not get sic till 10 years fom now and so on.

Bad habbits are often reversed eating donut that gives pleasure and so on, but the conciquences is delayed, I get overwaight in 3 months or 3 weaks or loke that.


So ypu need to figure out what will bring the reward in to the present moment to stick to a good habbit.


"The best way to change a log term behaviour is with shortterm feedback"
And one way to think about that is that long term behaviour like writing for years or going to gym and so on they have their conciquences,
So you need A way To onjoy in the moment.

here is one of many wayes:
The Sainfeld Strategy
"Don't break the chain"

So just tick the date on calender of you have did it.

now after 8 or 9 days you will feel that you dont have to break the chain.

One thing can be added in it to man=ke it more batter 
which is "Never miss Twice."


When you look at the top performers they also makes mistakes but the come on track quickely.





A great man doesn't seek to lead, he get called for it.